# CS 506 Data mining
# Fair house discrimination
## Team 1: Minda Zhang, Siyu Chen, Yicun Wu, Taoyu Chen

## Question description
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The project helps to understand if there is discrimination in lending/ banking
for individuals seeking home ownership at the neighborhood level by examining
who is participating in first-time homeownership programs and who is receiving
loans and purchasing homes.

## Project description
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Our project aims to find potential discrimination in lending and banking
practices at a neighborhood level by analyzing participation rates in first-time
homeownership programs and identifying who is receiving loans and purchasing
homes. By examining demographic data, including race, gender, and age, from loan
data and housing property datasets, we can generate visualized image data to
help identify areas where discrimination may be occurring. Ultimately, our goal
is to provide insights into whether discrimination exists in the loaning and
housing process, and if so, in which areas it is more prevalent.

## Folders
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
data

Description: data folder contains all of the datasets we used in our project.

images

Description: Images folder contains all images generated by our codes.

reports

Description: Report folder contains all our reports, including weekly report
and deliverable reports.

scripts

Description: Code we used to analyze the data. All of the code are .ipynb files.
Before run the code, simply change the dataset url or dataset path in the files
to corresponding path.

## Code
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Data.ipynb

Description: File transfer text location to census tract and integrate data in
each census tract. This file processes data about housing properties, the
Property Assessment dataset.

msamd_data.ipynb

Description: Code analysis distribution of Loans with different Census Tract and
Loan Type. This file processes the MSDA dataset.

neighborhood.ipynb

Description: File convert Boston census tract to Boston neighborhood.

num_loan.ipynb

Description: File find relation between census tract/area and loan amount.

num_loan_bos.ipynb

Description: This file map the average loan amount for each census tract. in addition,
it analyzes the relationship between race, age, and loan
acceptance/rejection rates. It compares population proportions of different
races and ages to their acceptance/denial rates using data from the MSDA dataset
and the neighborhood.ipynb.

msda_racedis.ipynb

Description: This file analyzes and map the loan amount for each census tract for each race.

##Dataset
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
msamd_14454.csv

Description: Home Mortgage Disclosure Act  (MSDA) dataset. Dataset provided by
the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council FFIEC.
Latest data can be downloaded from :https://ffiec.cfpb.gov/data-browser/data

fy2022pa-4.csv

Description: Property Assessment dataset from Analyze Boston. Gives property, or
parcel, ownership together with value information, which ensures fair assessment
of Boston taxable and non-taxable property.
Latest data can be found at: https://data.boston.gov/dataset/property-assessment
